Thank you again, everyone. Thank you very much, everyone, for participating. Thank you. Thank you,
Dalit. Thank you very much, everyone, for coming and for participating, as I said already.
Again, we're going to discuss the teaching of the Buddha. Actually, in the Buddha teaching, what is
it? Studying, contemplating, and practicing, or meditating, those are we can uphold the teaching of
the Buddha.
And that means that we will practice it, meditate it, actualize it, and truly, we are noble sammas,
right? Sammas that we can do.
And this is also not just happening, right? It is hard, for accidental advice, just some kind,
standing ways. But according to the teaching of the Buddha, it is truly very, very spacious and
beautiful.
Why is it beautiful? Because we're not discussing anything, more than accepting our kindness,
compassion, great joy and peace, happiness, to benefit for the beings and as well as ourselves,
according to our best capabilities, that's what we're really discussing, that's what we're talking.
So then, what else? There's nothing better, more profound, more beautiful, more simple, more casual
, more basic than this. Therefore, we should feel happy, joy, what we're doing, what we're standing
for, what we're trying to do, it's really wonderful.
According to Buddha's teaching and as well old brachanas, we're doing something remarkable in our
life, taking that advantage of our beautiful, precious lives.
Life is precious, life is so important, as well everyone's life is important, precious. But we just
regard it and neglect it without doing anything, then it's uninvestable.
We're not doing that, we're trying to release something, bring tangible meaning and a tangible
result to benefit to ourselves, to all the beings.
This benefit is also not just only for short periods, we're going to be talking for a long time, it
's a parameter, it's forever.
Whatever we develop with our mind, it stays forever.
But whatever we develop externally, beside that, it's all just a question of how long it lasts, how
long it lasts. But someday we develop with our mind, it really stays forever, this will become the
stepping stones, so we can activate it, elevate it.
Bring more bright and more better, more good for ourselves, for the others, for forever. That's
where we can get enlightenment, become the Buddha and discover our innate true nature as we will
discuss.
So therefore, for that reason, we should feel happy in joy. But also we can generate, because our
teaching, when we practice Adana, enlightenment is joy, enlightenment is peaceful, enlightenment is
uplifting that we all know.
So therefore, why we not start right now? Happy, happy, joy, peaceful, really be more grateful with
that, then follow the pole of the teaching.
Together with that, and as we discuss it, it's so important to have the motivation of the bodhicha,
vastness motivation of the bodhicha for the living beings.
Really thinking sincerely, what I'm doing is to make this benefit for our living beings, for all
living beings, from now and forever, to reach enlightenment, to perform all the suffering,
difficulty, troubles.
Even we think that one minute, or one second, the koda teaching is so powerful, it's so healing, so
uplifting, really so uplifting, it's just so also purifying, cleansing, purifying our emotions God.
Or emotional convolution, like stains, whatever we have been, it will heal, purify, and it is very
much the essential cause to reach enlightenment.
Together with that, and then, with the purely understanding, purely realizations, this is already
an teaching, why also we should bring up the purely realizations.
And all those like three ways, as you all know, this is not just a kind of like talk in the left,
and it's just kind of once and while we talk, those are our practice, what I'm discussing.
Of course we practice zuokin, but zuokin is best upon this. Zuokin is what called bodhicha, the
absolute bodhicha, the absolute bodhicha, radiating relative bodhicha.
So without this bodhicha, without this beautiful intention, there is no zuokins we will get.
We're just kidding ourselves, we like to something get zuokin practice, zuokin realization, we
start leaving all things and we start kind of like grab the zuokin, that is which, kidding
ourselves, we're pulling ourselves, really won't get any realization.
It's just like more, again, pull in a ditch, ditch of the duality, and all. So therefore, bring
those all with realizations.
Then we follow that again, of course, zuokin teaching, as we follow. This is again, that's what we
're discussing, and now, again, I go over here and you all have this booklet, and we look to this
booklet, as we left yesterday.
And this is, I think we'll make it up to here, as well as in this page 11, I think, page 11,
according this booklet, as well as in the spring week of the mantra yana, whichever part you follow
, establishing the rules, that's what we, I think we talked.
Here, Great Master Mooji mentioned, whichever you follow, that means, there is according, generally
, there is three, or three inner tantrums, or three, there is tantra teaching, which has divided
into three outer tantra, three inner tantrums.
Whichever you follow, or even zuokin teaching, you have to establish the rules. It's not just only
the very inner teachings, you have to establish the rules.
And not just only zuokin, that again, Mahayana zuokin, but also even in the L.A., the Persian
Buddhist school, we have to establish the rules.
That is what we're going to practice. Practice means you're keeping up the rules.
So therefore, we have to, whichever you establish, particularly in Vaidyana teaching here, Great
Master Mooji says, whichever you follow here, as well as in the supreme weekals of the mantra yanas
, supreme weekals of the mantra yana,
there is like three supreme weekals of the mantra yanas. Those are known as maha yoga and anu yoga
and ati yoga.
It's also our role, the familiar role. We've all heard so many times. According to the new schools
of Buddhism, they use terminology most of the time,
according to teaching, pada tantra, mada tantra, and neutral tantrums.
Reality I heard from the teachers and as well as from the teaching is basically the same. There's
no big difference.
So whichever follows you, whether you follow the maha yoga teaching or anu yoga teaching,
all those pada tantra names, all Mahamudra follows, all the Mademakas, all are inseparable of the
path and the result.
Those are the Sajja schools of Buddhism. Whichever you follow, we have to have a tangible view.
That means you have to have a tangible view. Again I use a tangible word, but we have to connect to
the view without any hesitation.
Without a doubt, we will have to be confident. Have to be confident.
As I said yesterday, we're not practicing this practice of zho khi chee chee with the belief.
Of course, there may be two different ways of confidence, or I believe, therefore I have confidence
sometimes.
But this time, zho khi meditation is not believing.
This rapa, when you establish it, we have to have confidence.
That means whenever I practice zho khi meditation, I have to have confidence what I'm meditating.
When you meditate on zho khi chee, you have to know, you have to have the confidence what you're
meditating.
Otherwise, if we don't have the confidence on the view, then our meditation becomes almost awake,
presumptuous.
And just a kind of a blurt, that is not in this case.
Even though it's good, we're trying, but this is not good.
For that reason here, establishing the confidence we would see as it is.
That we discussed yesterday, and of course, you all know, there are so many teachings, so many
books.
So many books we read on the zho khi chee teachings, we discussed.
This person, this conception, thinking of this might be, or looks like, I feel good, or it's really
good.
It's all good, but all is conception. All is mind.
What great teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, said yesterday, I said, from our Apsar Sotaras,
"The enlightened nature is right with us, but the conceptions are governed."
Conception. Conception is duality. Conception is the obscuration system.
Conception is emotion. And the zho khi chee teachings name conception as same thing, Rupa Shakyam
uni,
with very famous terminologies. Mind and Rupa. Conception is mind.
All too. Conception is also relative truth. Conception is relative truth.
We have mind. We're thinking now. This is conception.
But we're not meditating into conception. We're not keeping it. That is not zho khi.
Who's there for? Here, great Master Muharramar said, said, "You have to establish."
Then we went yesterday according to Madhima, saying, "You know, you received so many teachings,
but all these teachings that you received from so many great Masters, reading books, all that,
we all pray, we all hope it will clip that, "Oh, who?" Something that we find.
That's what it was called. In many times, the teachings said, "We hope, we really, all these
teachings
and all these reading the books will hook our awareness to the ring of the womb. Really hook up
this.
Hook that. I hope it will clip, clip." So in order to do that, yesterday we went according to Madh
ima schools.
Where did this mind come from? On the relative level, we have mind. Nobody can ignore.
We have right now. That's what we're thinking. We're discussing. We're communicating.
We're verbally talking. Maybe also you're listening.
This is all really mind. Mind, of course, as we call listening by the ears, reality is mind.
Or maybe now more than a time, it's brains. Brains.
But this time, we're not meditating on the brains. We're not meditating on what we heard.
Song, hearing. We're meditating the nature of that.
Find out of nature, we're going to relax.
We mean why we have to be there. Why we have to meditate on the nature?
Because we've been carried by this mind, by this conception.
According to the Buddha's teachings, from the biggest times, all the time is carried.
And they're carried out all the time. We're looking all the time out.
Looking, listening, all going, thinking, hoping, all these activities.
Really, it's all out, out, out. But what do we mean? What do we got?
Fundamentally, what I'm talking, that we all need happy, peaceful, calm, soothing.
Pretty from a cure in the teaching, always, pretty from doubt and hesitations and emotions.
But we never thought it. Never thought it.
No matter how much we are smart, how much we are rich, how much we are culpable to do so many
things.
But still, that we are loaded, saturated, completely sorrow, and revive the emotions of these
conceptions.
Today, we're trying to make the change, something change to this.
So there, we're going to find out where this doubt, this mind is coming from, where it is.
We went yesterday. It's not something that you know only we discussed yesterday. You all know.
But we find out, this mind is controlling every aspect that we know, every aspect of our lives.
It's a big boss, big CEO, CEO, really. More than CEO, it controls every activity, every our
movement, every our thinking, our activity, performance every day.
It's true. You ask yourself, it's true or not. But we hate this mind. It's behind the scenes,
completely.
So therefore, we find out this nature. This, that is what we call nature.
Therefore, the greatest teacher in the lineage masters, and the Gopin Massama, they taught those to
discover.
These are tangible questions, very accurate questions we always get.
We have this person's mind. But where this mind comes from? By the existing, it's produced the
existing.
It's produced the mind. Our present mind is produced by something existing, from something existing
or non-existing.
Neither and either we discussed those yesterday.
When we are investigating, there is no answer. There is nothing that you can find at all.
That is known as, in the teaching, also I call the Doki teaching, we are making division between
conception of the mind and the raka.
Raka is free from every conception. When you discover that nature, when you see that, that is what
you see, the greatest things, obvious things.
That is really nature. Believe it or not. Maybe we are thinking, oh, we like to, nature might have
to, I like to find something that I can hold.
Realitally, there is nothing really to hold. It's beyond, what is it? It's also not negation status
, negation status.
For those reasons, in the Doki teaching, what I said, Raka is always in the four great liberated
states, four great liberated states. Always.
It's not just newly developed. Always. Those who are liberated, of course, you know, you heard this
many times and we practiced.
And I will list the names and then go the meaning of that, each of those.
So, the first is liberated organically. In a debate, yedore, yedore, yedore, organically liberated.
And the second is mandor, self-liberated. And the third is yedore, yedore, negative liberated, or
fresh, maybe, yedore, fresh.
F-R-E-S-H, fresh, liberated, liberated. And port is tadron, and liberated from every sport, maybe a
translated sport, S-P-O-T, any sport.
So that, Raka is always in that status, what we behold, what we discover through the investigation.
Generally, in meditation, Doki teaching, there is two ways of meditating. Those are known as in
teaching.
Teaching says, chegung and jogung. Chegung means meditating by the analytics.
You meditate by the, what you gain, by the analytically meditating by analytically, analytically in
that.
Second is meditating easy approach, easy approach. What we are doing now is easy approach.
Analytic meditation is all those great philosophers, great scholars, studying, contemplating, and
then they start meditating in the practice.
Still they need instructors. According to the teaching, even they vaguely know all that analyt
ically, but receive the final instruction.
That that, the lineage teachings, you need blessings, lineage blessings. Then they meditate.
We are doing as an easy approach, meditating. So there, even though it is easy, but still because
we need confidence to the will,
therefore we met with those easy analytics.
And then, the other one, yesterday, I also met, those are in the teaching said, find out the mind
by the, by tuning in, go some in a little bit.
Where is it coming from? Where one comes from? Where is now? Where is gone? By that, find out the
mind, mind, or nature of the mind.
So now, we find our rukkah is, this mark rukkah, which is free from the conception, is